# Life-Actuarial-Stats
This quick Jupyter Notebook aims to introduce some basic concepts of Actuarial Statistics, particularlly life actuarial.<br>

## *Introduction*
When defining **Actuarial Science** we mean that discipline in which the risks assumed by insurance and financial entities are evaluated through the application of statistical and mathematical techniques. So, in this subject the main scope refers to assessing *financial risks* specially into insurance industry using quantitative tools opportunely reliables. <br>
Of course, there are a lot of fields in which this topic has evolved over the course of years. For instance: Casualty issues, Pensions, Reinsurance and many others. Nowadays, being straightforward, since the dawn of **The Industrial Revolution** we have witnessed an upward trend in <font color='red'>**Life Expectancy Worlwide**</font>. Moreover, science progress has brought a widespread of benefits in lifestyle of Mankind. As a matter of fact, there has been a secular tendency to work less and increase productivity, increasing leisuring. It is for this reason that the various jurisdictions were able to adopt retirement policies thanks to detailed **Demographic Studies** as well.<br> As some Europe Populations are struggling with aging and a negative gap in births, others Continents such as Africa are facing high rates but as a result of other factors their Life Expectancy is quite far from the Occidental one. To some extent, aging features such as Schooling or GDP are relevant in which *Spock* would have said <font color='green'>**"Life long and prosper"**</font>.   <br> In this brief Jupyter Notebook we are going to intruduce some basic concepts of Life Actuarial Statistics hoping make clear ideas through Python and its powerful libraries.<br>
[Spain](https://joevalencia.github.io/Life-Actuarial-Stats/Spain.html)
